In a Sunday morning post on Truth
Social, President Donald Trump promised
to send at least $2,000 directly to
Americans using tariff revenue,
promising to reward taxpayers and pay
off the US national debt. The post comes
just days after both conservative and
liberal justices on the Supreme Court
scrutinized his administration's use of
the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act to impose the tariffs. In the
post, Trump noted that the promised
$2,000 would not be issued to quote
unquote highincome people, but did not
provide details on what income level
would disqualify recipients or when and
how the rebates would be sent. Trump
claimed the United States was quote
taking in trillions of dollars and will
soon begin paying down our enormous
debt, $37 trillion.
The US raised about $195 billion in
tariff revenue during fiscal year 2025,
according to the Treasury Department
statement after the year ended in
September. The Yale Budget Lab predicts
Trump's tariffs could raise as much as
$2.6 trillion between 2026 in 2035.
But if the Supreme Court strikes down
his use of the EA, it could cut this
revenue down by more than 50%. Though
the administration has signaled it will
seek other legal methods to impose
tariffs even if the existing ones are
struck down. The US national debt is
over $ 38.1 trillion according to the
Treasury Department's data. After
speaking on ABC Newses this week on
Sunday, Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
said he had not spoken to Trump about
sending a tariff dividend to Americans
and implied it might come instead in the
form of tax decreases already promoted
as part of Trump's policy agenda.
Bessant said, quote, "The $2,000
dividend could come in lots of forms and
lots of ways. It could be just the tax
decreases that we are seeing on the
president's agenda. you know, no tax on
tips, no tax on overtime, no tax on
social security, deductibility of auto
loans. So, you know, those are
substantial deductions that, you know,
are being financed in the tax bill. This
is not the first time Trump has proposed
sending Americans cash based on tariffs,
which threatens to raise prices for
consumers on imported goods. In July,
Senator Josh Holly of Missouri sponsored
legislation to send $600 rebate checks
to Americans. Trump floated the idea in
October. For more on the story, check
out the article at the link in the
description.